# Docker commands

## Setup

The followings scripts assume that [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) has already been installed.

They also assume that the user has Docker permissions without requiring `sudo`. If you do not have these permissions:

1. Enter the following command:

  ```
  sudo usermod -a -G docker $USER
  ```

2. Run the following command to change the permissions of all files with the ".sh" extension in the current directory, making them executable for all users.:

  ```
  chmod a+x *.sh
  ```

3. Log out and log back into your console to enable them.

## Hummingbot Client
### Create an instance of Hummingbot

The `hummingbot-create.sh` script will create the folders needed to run Hummingbot and then install Hummingbot.

```
./create.sh
```

### Start up / connect to an instance of Hummingbot

The `hummingbot-start.sh` script will connect to a running instance of Hummingbot.

```
./start.sh
```

### Updating Hummingbot version

The `hummingbot-update.sh` script will update your instance to the latest version of Hummingbot.

```
./update.sh
```

## Gateway
### Create Gateway Instance

The `gateway-create.sh` script helps you pull, configure, and run the Gateway Docker image.

```
./gateway-create.sh
```

### Copy Hummingbot Certs

If you didn't do this step during `gateway-create.sh`, the `gateway-copy-certs.sh` script helps you copy the SSL certificates generated by Hummingbot into your Gateway files `certs` folder. This lets your Hummingbot instance access Gateway securely.

```
./gateway-copy-certs.sh
```

### Useful Commands

These commands assume a Gateway container with the default instance name `gateway`:

* List all Gateway containers: `docker ps -a --filter ancestor=hummingbot/gateway`
* Start Gateway container and attach to it: `docker start gateway && docker attach gateway`
* Stop Gateway container: `docker stop gateway`
* Update Gateway container to latest version: `docker pull hummingbot/gateway:latest`
* Remove Gateway container: `docker rm gateway`